# PreciseOnco_meta-analysis

Project Abstract

We conducted systematic review and meta-analysis in order to provide a comprehensive overview of outcomes in patients undergoing personalized genomics-based versus non-personalized treatment in oncology. The PubMed searches detected 873 studies based on phase II clinical trials’ results published from 2010 to 2021. We selected 49 studies, having 101 arms and 7012 patients for the analysis. We compared 1-year Overall Survival (OS), Progression-Free Survival (PFS), and Response Rate (RR) between genomics-based personalized and non-personalized arms. Mann-Whitney test did not detect any significant difference in 1-year OS, but RR and 1-year PFS were significantly higher in personal arms (p=0.009 and p=0.011). Medians of PFS and OS were also higher in personalized arms (p=0.018 and p=0.032). Proportional meta-analysis and meta-regression detected a significant association between personal treatment and RR. RRs were significantly higher in personal arms (p=0.037). The same results were obtained for 1-year PFS and OS rates (p=0.043 and p=0.022). There were no differences between personal and non-personal studies in subgroup analysis. Previous drug treatment, type of therapy (target/immunotherapy/cytotoxic), study design and journal impact factor did not effect on RR, PFS and OS. In the evaluated studies personalization only affected the outcomes. This study highlights the benefits of a personalized approach to cancer treatment using genomic data. Despite the limitations, the personalized approach offers hope for the development of precision oncology and improved cancer outcomes.
